THE RULES OF THE LEAGUE

L1 TITLE, OBJECT & CONSTITUTION
(a)	That this combination of clubs shall be titled the Halifax Cricket League (League).
(b)	The object of the League shall be to promote the best interests of the game of cricket.
(c)	The League shall be open to all irrespective of age, colour, ethnic origin, disability, gender, race, sexual orientation and social status.
(d)	Each season the League shall consist of current clubs plus any elected at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) under the various parts of Rule L4.
(e) The First & Second XI competitions shall be divided into three divisions as per Rule L6(a). All clubs shall enter a First XI with an option to enter the Second XI competition. Clubs that only enter a First XI shall only compete in the lowest division and cannot gain promotion to a higher division.
(f)	The Financial Year shall be from 1 October to 30 September.
(g)	The income and property of the League shall be used solely towards the promotion of its objectives as set forth in these Rules and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly, to members of the League.
(h)	If upon the winding up or dissolution of the League there remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, any property whatsoever it shall not be paid or distributed amongst the members of the League but given or transferred to (a) charitable organisation(s). Such organisation(s) shall have objectives similar to those of the League which prohibit the distribution of its income and property amongst its members to an extent at least as great as imposed on the League under or by virtue of Rule L1(g). Nominated organisation(s) shall be determined by the members of the League, at or before the time of dissolution, and in so far effect cannot be given to such provisions then it shall be allocated to other charitable objectives.

L2 COUNCIL, OFFICERS & THE EXECUTIVE
(a)	A League Council (Council) shall be formed consisting of one representative from each of the member clubs and the Life Vice-Presidents [See Rule L2(c)]. In addition shall be persons elected to the following positions at the AGM: President, Chairman, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Registrations Secretary (RegS) Results Secretary (ResS), Sunday League (SL) Secretary, and Officers appointed to the individual posts of:	General Data Protection, Development, Disciplinary, Events, Grounds, PR & Media, Representative Teams, Trophy Facilitation, Website Advertising and Welfare. From time to time any such posts may be combined. Also included shall be representatives from the Halifax Cricket League Association of Cricket Officials (HCLACO), Junior Cricket League (JCL) and the Calderdale Cricket Development Group (CCDG). A Fixtures Compiler, Historian and an Independent Voting Examiner shall be appointed, the latter for the purposes of Rule L14 and any other relevant matter.
(b)	A League Executive (Executive) shall be formed comprising of all positions listed in the second sentence of Rule L2(a) plus the HCLACO, JCL and CCDG representatives. Any other person may be co-opted to fulfil a designated position or duty.
(c)	During a calendar year the full Executive shall meet on four occasions, plus at any other time it is deemed necessary. It shall also meet on a further four occasions but, to facilitate an effective use of time, it shall be divided into four separate Department Groups (Group) under the designations League, Administration, Finance and Development. The four Group heads, together with the President and any other co-opted member of the Executive, shall form a Management Board (Board) that shall be responsible for co-ordinating, acting upon and, in some cases, confirming decisions of the Groups. A Rules Sub-Committee shall be formed consisting of a maximum of six Executive members, of which at least one shall be the SL Secretary, to consider all aspects of the Rules. It shall meet on an ad-hoc basis ensuring that all conditions of Rule L14 are met. The appointment of a Life Vice-President [see Rule L2(a)] shall be proposed by the Board with the Executive making the final confirmatory decision.
(d)	The Executive shall have the power to deal with any urgent matters, including any matters not covered by specific Rules, and impose any decision or penalty considered necessary which shall be final and binding on all parties. 
(e)	The Grounds Officer shall have the power to inspect the grounds of any League club and report upon its fitness or otherwise to the Executive. Any recommendation, action or penalty decided upon by the Executive as a result of ground report findings shall be final and binding on all parties.

L3 MEETINGS - LEAGUE & CALDERDALE CRICKET DEVELOPMENT GROUP
(a)	Meetings shall be held at the Headquarters of the League unless the Executive determine otherwise. See Rule L3(i) for CCDG meetings. 
(b)	The AGM shall be held in the month of November. Notice of the meeting together with an agenda shall be circulated to all clubs and Officers no later than 14 days prior to the meeting.
(c)	The Council shall meet in February, April, July & October and at other times as the business of the League may require. 
(d)	To form a quorum for any Council Meeting a minimum of one-third of club representatives shall be present and, in the case of all other meetings, it shall be one-third of the persons entitled to vote.
(e)	At all Council, AGM or any Special General Meeting (SGM) clubs shall have one representative who shall be entitled to vote {See Rule L3(f)}.
(f)	At the meetings detailed above all attendees listed shall be entitled to take part in discussions. All references to ‘Chairman’ shall also apply to any appointed deputy. Voting rights at such meetings shall be as follows:
i) AGM, SGM and Council Meetings: League club representatives and the HCLACO representative shall each have one vote. The President, Honorary Vice Presidents and Officers shall have no vote, with the exception of the Chairman who shall have a casting vote only.
ii)	Board, Executive and Group meetings: all members shall each have one vote with the meeting chairman also having an additional casting vote. 
(g)	At all meetings votes shall be given personally and not by proxy and, unless a ballot is demanded by any member present, or the Executive has deemed a vote to be electronic, it shall be indicated by a show of hands. Except, as otherwise provided in these Rules, the result of the voting shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast. Where voting is electronic then a breakdown of votes submitted by each club shall be published on the League Website (Website). A club shall respond to any electronic voting request even if it abstains. Failure to do so by the return date shall result in a fine of £20.00. 
(h)	During any calendar year, commencing 1 January, a club not represented at a Council Meeting shall be fined £10.00 for its first absence and £20.00 for any second transgression. For any subsequent absence, in addition to the £20.00 fine, a further sanction of the deduction of five points shall be made from all its open-age teams. Should the latter occur after the end of the season the deduction of points shall be carried forward to the following season. Any fines not paid by 31 December shall be doubled.
(i)	During the period from 1 January to 31 December four CCDG meetings shall be held on the third Wednesday in the months of January (including AGM), April, July and October. The venue, time and agenda shall be made available on the CCDG Website. Failure to attend any of the four meetings above shall result in a fine for each occurrence of £10.00, which shall be levied irrespective of any apology being proffered.  All fines shall be paid to the CCDG Treasurer, notice of which shall be issued following the October meeting, with Rule L4(d) also applying to the CCDG. Please refer to Rule L14(a) regarding any alterations to this CCDG Rule.

L4 MEMBERSHIP & SUBSCRIPTIONS
(a)	All clubs shall abide by the following England & Wales Cricket Board (ECB) publications: 
i) Code of Conduct [incorporating the Spirit of Cricket], 
ii) Guidance for Umpires {ground, weather & light}, 
iii) Misuse of Social Media Policy, 
iv) Use of Non-English Language Policy, 
v) Guidance on the Wearing of Cricket Helmets & Fielding Regulations, 
vi) Fast Bowling Match Directives (see ECB Guidelines for Junior Players in Open-Age Cricket) & 
vii) the Safe Hands Policy – welfare of young people in cricket. A club telephone contact number, either landline, mobile or both, shall be advised each season for insertion in the Yearbook club directory, the details for use in any emergency on match days.
(b)	Subscriptions shall be established or varied at the AGM, or a SGM, with each club currently paying one of the following annual fees:        
i)           £185.00 (Saturday & Sunday Leagues) 
ii)           £150.00 (Saturday League only - two teams)
iii)          £135.00 (Saturday League only - one team) 
iv)          £ 50.00 (Sunday League only)
v)          £10.00 (T20 only)

The fees for i) - iv) shall include Yorkshire Cricket Board (YCB) affiliation fees, Institute of Groundsmanship (IOG) subscription. The included purchase of League Yearbooks shall number ten for i), ii) & iii), five for iv) & two for v). In addition a League club shall pay a levy, which shall be determined annually by the Executive, to be used solely for the promotion of junior cricket. The Treasurer shall transfer the grand total amount to the JCL by no later than 28 February. Subscriptions and levies must be paid at or before the February Council Meeting and defaulting clubs shall be fined £5.00 for the first week and £1.00 per day thereafter. Any club requiring more than its allocation of Yearbooks must order the additional number required at the February Council Meeting. 
(c)	Each club shall contribute equally any additional sums as may be required by the Treasurer to manage the finances of the League. Any such sum shall be agreed at a SGM. 
(d)	All fines shown in these Rules shall be paid to the Treasurer within twenty-eight days of issue. Failure to do so shall result in the fine being doubled. Should the fine still be unpaid within a further fourteen days the club shall be requested to appear before the Board.
(e)	All clubs shall take out public liability insurance with a minimum indemnity cover as required by the ECB. Each club shall also provide policy documentation to show cover for members umpiring in their own club matches, to comply with Rule L11(d) (i) & (ii). Each season a copy of the relevant cover note and the above policy documentation shall be sent to the Treasurer to be received by no later than the second Saturday in April. For clubs with a policy renewal date during the season the relevant documentation shall be received at least one week before the expiry date of the current policy. Failure to comply with this Rule shall result in a fine of £5.00 for each day beyond which the appropriate information is outstanding, culminating in the suspension of the club concerned if the copy is not received. Should any club fail to meet the requirements of this Rule no liability shall be incurred by the League, the Executive or any Officer of the League. 
(f)	Each club shall be required to:
i)	Ensure that its scorebox, or the position taken up by the scorers, has a mains electricity supply and a minimum of two power sockets. Alternatively a suitable laptop or tablet emergency battery charger must be available at all times.
ii)	purchase a minimum of two tickets for any event organised by the Executive, e.g. the Annual Dinner.
(g)	Any club wishing to join the League must contact the Secretary for an application pack, who shall also provide any further information required plus all relevant forms to complete.
(h)	Any written applications to join the League must be accompanied by a completed Form of Information and League Ground Report (LGR). Applying clubs shall be required to reach an adequate category in all areas, with at least two categories classified as good by the nominated members of the Executive, who shall undertake an onsite inspection and complete the LGR before the February Council Meeting. A copy of the club’s constitution and its three most recent sets of annual accounts must also accompany the application. At the above meeting, in the year before the season it intends to join the League, representatives of the club shall make an application presentation. All relevant information and documentation shall be made available at this meeting and any League club, if it wishes, shall be given the opportunity to ask questions of the representatives. The final decision on admission shall be by an electronic vote with the results being announced at the April Council Meeting and ratified at the following November AGM. Any club not required to provide one year’s notice to its current league may apply for admission, enclosing all documentation, before 30 June. Their application shall be considered, in the manner outlined above, at the AGM for admission for the next season. 
(i)	Any new club accepted to play in the League shall pay an entrance fee, currently £50.00, which may be varied at any AGM. Payment of the entrance fee shall be made at the February Council Meeting in a club’s inaugural season. 
(j)	A club applying to join the League, including any club voluntarily resigning from the YCB Pyramid System – West (PSW), as per Rules L4(g) and L4(h) shall join the lowest divisions of both the First and Second XI’s existing at that time. The only exception shall be in the case of a former League club relegated from the PSW, and in such circumstances both its First and Second XI’s shall be restored to the division in which they were playing in the year of leaving. Any club returning to the League from the PSW by relegation is exempt from paying the joining fee shown in Rule L4(i).
(k)	When considering accepting any PSW promotion offer, a club shall ensure it is aware of the promotion and relegation criteria set out both in these Rules and those of the PSW. 
(l)	A club accepting a promotion offer from the PSW shall be aware that it if returns to the League through voluntary application, or relegation, then that return must be at the amateur status described in Rules L5(a) and L5(b).
(m)	Any club resigning from the League shall inform the Secretary, in writing, by no later than 30 September to  enable it to leave the League prior to the commencement of the following season. No club shall negotiate with another league with the intention of considering joining that league without first obtaining permission, in writing, from the Secretary and permission shall be refused if the club has failed to fulfil its financial obligations or has failed to observe the Rules of the League in respect of withdrawal of membership. If the League does not provide the necessary written permission within 14 days then the club shall have the right of appeal to the YCB. Permission to negotiate shall not be interpreted as resignation  or dismissal but should the date of 30 September, that by which resignations are due to be received, pass without further written notification of action from the club then the above written permission is deemed spent.

L5 PLAYER REGISTRATION & QUALIFICATIONS     
(a)	A club shall register or transfer a person as follows, but only as a bona-fide amateur player (player) defined as one who does not receive any money, or gift, as an inducement to play for or a club: 
i)	Download the Registration, Transfer & Declaration Form (RTDF) from Website League Documents and complete in full, including the overseas yes/no classification, ensuring that the club secretary signs the RTDF. 
ii)	The details shall be the added to the list of players on the website of the club and, at the same time, email the RTDF to the RegS. Any incomplete RTDF shall be rejected. 
(b) Any club found to have paid a player, or provided a gift to play for or perform shall be expelled from the League. Any player found to have received a payment or gift in return for joining, staying or performing at a club shall be expelled from the League.
(c)	Players may receive consolidated expenses for umpiring in any match organised by the League, commensurate with the umpire’s rate(s) shown in Rule L11(b). They may also receive payment commensurate with his/her club’s rates for the following duties, as these will not be interpreted as an inducement to play: (i) scorer (ii) ground maintenance worker (iii) bar person, provided it is not funded by their club or (iv) honorary member.
(d)	Players who are employed in a related business may be reimbursed for carrying out work at their clubs. If requested by the Board an invoice for such work must be provided for verification and any payment of these invoices shall not be regarded as an inducement to play. 
(e)	Players may be reimbursed by their clubs for any course fees for 
i) recognised coaching, 
ii) first aid, 
iii) welfare or 
iv) clubdevelopment. 
These fees shall not be regarded as an inducement to play.
(f)	A club and/or its sponsor(s) may provide cricket clothing once a season to the value of £100.00 per player and this shall not be regarded as an inducement to play. Similarly, should a club reach a cup final or commemorative event, additional clothing may be provided by the club and/or its sponsor(s).       
(g)	No overseas player shall be eligible for registration or play for any member club unless they can fulfill either of the following criteria: 
(i)	the person concerned shall physically have been a resident in the United Kingdom for a continuous minimum period of twelve months (without interruption of no more than two months) immediately prior to the League season for which they wish to register; or
(ii)	the person has been granted an Indefinite Leave Remain (ILR) permit by the UK Visas & Immigration Authority. This applies to a person who does not hold the right of abode in the UK but has been admitted to the UK, without any time limit on his or her stay, and who is free to take up employment or study. When the latter has been granted it is known as Indefinite Leave to Enter (ILE).
(h)	 (i) 	Players may be registered during the  course of the season but must not play in any League match unless they have been registered with the RegS by no later than 6:00pm on the Thursday before they play in a match. No player, except a junior under 17 years of age on 31 August of the previous year, shall be registered or transferred after 15 August. 
(ii) 	The registration of a junior player with the Halifax Junior Cricket League (JCL) does not imply registration with the League. Before participating in senior cricket the registration process for all junior players under 16 years of age, including those qualifying below, shall be completed including the approval by email of the parent/guardian when requested by the Website Play Cricket System. A copy of the RTDF shall also be sent, for reference purposes, to the JCL Registration Secretary (JCL RegS). Any player registered with a club at the end of the previous season shall automatically be registered with that club for the following season unless a completed RTDF has been received by the RegS, prior to the commencement of the season. For each category below, where minimum age criteria applies, the restrictions for registration of such players, both boys & girls, shall apply and unless qualified, no player may play senior cricket. All player’s ages are calculated as being as on 1 September in the year preceding the season. The following restrictions also  apply: 
a)	Players aged under 11 years of age: may not play senior cricket whatsoever.
b)	Players aged 11 years of age: only those selected for a county U12 squad, or are deemed by ECB performance managers to be of a standard above ‘district level’, for that season, may play senior cricket plus they have written parental consent to play. In addition players in this category must also produce to the umpires, prior to EVERY senior match they intend to participate in, their YCC permission card.
c)	Players aged 12 years of age: may play senior cricket provided they have written parental consent to play. 
d)	Players aged 13-18 years of age: may play senior cricket. It should be noted that all ECB Helmets, Fast Bowling Directives and Fielding Regulations for players aged 18 years and under, shown in Rule L8(e), apply to all matches under the auspices of the League. Any transgression of this Rule will be dealt with as if the team deliberately played an ineligible player & be subject to the same sanctions as detailed in Rule L5(k).
(iii) 	Each season the Secretary shall issue a Self-Declaration Form (SDF). At the April Council Meeting every club shall provide a copy of the completed form, signed by its current chairman, treasurer and First XI captain, which shall indicate which players are to be reimbursed for carrying out club duties, as shown in Rule L5(c), parts (ii), (iii) & (iv). The SDF should also confirm that none of its registered players shall receive pay or gifts to play, to stay or to perform at the club.
(i)	Any player who has ceased to be remunerated for playing cricket, on or before 31 December of the previous year, may play as an amateur in the League, provided that all provisions of the remainder of Rule L5 are met. 
(j)	All registrations for the transfer of players shall be conducted in accordance with current YCB regulations. For all transfers the RegS shall check that the player has fulfilled all financial obligations to his/her previous club and, should this not be the case, the transfer shall be refused. No player shall play for a club fielding a Saturday team in another League unless the transfer procedure is completed.
(k)	Any team playing an ineligible player, under any part of these Rules, shall forfeit any points gained in the match and, in addition 12 points shall be deducted from its season’s total. The maximum points available on the day, in the division, shall be awarded to its opponents. Should any club contravene this Rule on any further occasion the offence shall be dealt with by the Board. 
(l)	During the season between the first to the last scheduled dates of matches no League club shall approach or negotiate with any player of any other League club, verbally or in writing, with the intention of securing their services. 
(m)	Any player selected for a League XI in any inter-league competition, and not taking up the invitation, cannot play for his/her club on the day of the match without the consent of the Executive except for a semi-final or final of the Parish Cup, Crossley Shield or Rod Warhurst Cup competitions.

L6 FIXTURES, MATCH POINTS & AVERAGES
(a)	There shall be independent First & Second XI competitions with teams in both cases divided into three Divisions - Premier, First & Second - with each team in a division playing an equal number of matches. 
(b)	As soon as practical in each new year the Fixtures Calendar shall be arranged by the Fixtures Compiler and advised to the PR & Media Officer. The Calendar, containing all HCL & HSL fixtures shall be posted on the Website as soon as available and also printed in the Yearbook. The latter shall be distributed at the April Council Meeting with all other listed  recipients mailed a copy.
(c)	Matches shall usually commence on the third week in April and be played every Saturday plus Sundays and Bank Holidays as determined. All matches shall be played on the dates arranged and the final fixtures of the season shall be no later than the last weekend in September. 
(d)	Points for match results shall be awarded as follows:
i)	Outright win - where a team scores more runs than the opposition and bowls it out -  12 points awarded. Bonus points do not apply.
ii)	Scoring most runs where a team fails to bowl out the opposition – 6 points awarded  plus bonus points.
iii)	Tied matches - where both teams have scored the same number of runs irrespective of the number of wickets to fall – 3 points awarded to each team plus bonus points.
iv)	Abandoned matches with no play – where a match has been abandoned due to inclement weather with no play possible  - 3 points awarded to both teams. 
v)	Abandoned matches but play commenced – where a match has been abandoned due to inclement weather afterplay has commenced - 3 points awarded to both teams, plus bonus points accrued at the time of abandonment.
vi)	Match  Forfeited - should a team forfeit a League fixture then 4 points shall be deducted from its season’s total. Its opponents shall be awarded 12 points provided that at least one match in its division results in more than a 3-3  allocation of points (see above). If no match falls into the latter category then only 3 points shall be awarded. Refer to Rule L8(m).

Bonus Points Calculation Table

Batting - Number of Runs

100-139 = 1pt,   140-179 = 2pts,
180 or more = 3 pts (maximum)
Irrespective of the actual score maximum bonus
points shall be awarded  to the team batting
second should it beat its opponents score

Note: an innings declared by the team batting first does not grant the bowling team maximum bonus points unless it subsequently wins the match.

Bowling - Number of Wickets

Four to six = 1pt,   seven to nine = 2pts,
    All out = 3pts (maximum)
Note: all out includes teams that have less than eleven players to bat.                  

(e)	At the close of each season the top two teams in each of the First and Second Divisions shall be promoted to the Premier & First Divisions respectively. The bottom two teams in each of the Premier & First Divisions shall be relegated to the First and Second Divisions respectively. Should a club accept promotion to the PSW [see Rule L4(i)] and no club is relegated from the PSW to the League, only one team shall be relegated at that time from the First XI’s  Premier & First Divisions. In the case of a club promoted to the PSW and its Second XI team obtains promotion in its last season before leaving, then only one team shall be relegated from the Second XI Division above. All other divisional movements shall be subject to this Rule  and, dependent on the divisional status of the club’s Second XI team in the year of leaving, then similar movements shall apply as above.  
(f)	The Executive reserves the right to amend the structure of the League as it deems fit to accommodate any other situation that arises. 
(g)	In the event of two or more teams having the same number of points at the close of the season, where championship, promotion, relegation or re-election issues are involved, the final position of such teams shall be determined on the basis of the team having most maximum point wins. Should there still be equality then wins in descending order of match points awarded shall be the determining factor. If equality still remains then the final positions shall be determined on the basis of the team having the best average of runs for, and against per wicket, in respect of all League matches during the season. 
(h)	At the August Executive Meeting player performance qualifications, for League matches only, shall be established for the current season. At its close, clubs shall submit to the Assistant Secretary (AS) details of its fielding mark qualifiers for First & Second XIs on the provided official form and signed by the club secretary and one other official. Should this form not be received within 14 days of the end of the season then any late return shall be disqualified. For the batting, bowling and wicketkeeping awards the AS shall refer to the Website Statistics (WS) and produce full  qualifying details. Should the award for the individual wicketkeeping or fielding trophies result in a tie then the higher number of stumpings (wicketkeeping) or catches (fielding) shall decide the winner. In the event that the figures for either award are still tied then the trophy shall be shared. The finalised details shall then be submitted to all clubs by the AS for checking with a specified deadline for any query to be advised. The AS has the authority to request any club to make any hard copy scorebook, still in use, to be made available should any problem arise with the LWS. Should a player transfer from one club to another in the same Division, during the course of a season, then his/her second club shall be responsible for collecting all the player’s records for the first part of his/her season. The two records shall be amalgamated to produce one combined list of details and averages for the season, to submit as above, clearly stating that this process has been undertaken. 
(i)	When all checks of the above have been completed prizes shall be awarded to the leading players with details published on the League website and made available to the media. 

L7 PRE-MATCH PROCEDURES & CANCELLATIONS 
(a)	In the event of a First XI having a vacant date on a scheduled
match day no player who has played six or more League
matches for a First XI in the current season may play for its
Second XI on that day. 
(b)	The following shall apply for the supply of teas:
i) 	The home club shall provide a tea free of charge for the
umpires and scorers.
ii)	Prior to the scheduled start of the match, to avoid any
loss or food waste to the home club, the visiting team
shall indicate the exact number of teas it requires, which
shall be a minimum of seven excluding the scorer [see
above].
iii)	In the event of a match not starting, or there is a very
early finish, the visiting players shall offer to purchase 
the teas ordered and provided.
iv)	Visiting teams that have players with special dietary
requirements, or do not require the minimum number 
of teas shown above during a period of fasting, shall
inform the home club of those needs by 2:00pm on the 
Wednesday preceding the match. In the latter case a
failure to do so shall result in the cost of the minimum
amount of teas being charged to the visiting club.
(c)	No match shall be postponed due to a clash with any other
sporting fixture. No match shall be cancelled without the
sanction of the Executive except as detailed below:
i) 	Should there be persistent inclement weather on the 
day of a match it may be cancelled by the home club, 
but by no earlier than three hours before the start time,
in order to prevent the visiting team and umpires 
making unnecessary journeys. This is on condition that
an official or captain of the home club contacts an
official or captain of the away club and they mutually
agree to the cancellation. 
ii)	If such an agreement is made then within one hour an
email must be sent, by both home and away clubs, to 
the ResS stating which persons made the agreement.
In addition the full details of the selected teams shall
be entered by both clubs on the Website There is no
requirement to complete a MRF in these
circumstances. Also the home club must contact the
umpires to notify them of the cancellation and should
an umpire not be contactable it must ensure that a
responsible person remains at the ground to meet with
the umpire and pay any appropriate expenses.
iii)	The away team has the right not to agree to the
cancellation until it has inspected the ground. If it does
not agree to the cancellation and the umpires, on their
inspection, subsequently rule it unfit for play and
abandon the match, without a ball being bowled, then
the away team shall be liable for the full amount of the
umpire’s expenses.
iv)	If any club fails to comply with the notification
procedure outlined above then it shall be fined £10.00.
Any additional breech(es) during the season shall result
in the doubling of the fine on each occasion.
(d)	In the last six matches of the season, unless approved by any
five members of the Executive, none of whom shall have a vested
interest in any decision to be taken, no player shall play for
a Second XI if he/she has accumulated with a First XI the
appearance percentages, or over, shown below:
i) 	Six to four matches remaining - 75% or over of First XI 
matches.
ii)	Three matches to one match remaining - 80% or over of
First XI matches.
iii)	Should a First XI player be suspended  - for any disciplinary
offence during the season, but subsequently is available
to play in any of the last six matches, he/she for the
purpose of this Rule shall be deemed to have played in all
matches during the suspension period.
Any club seeking such approval must submit a request by email,
with its reasons, to the RS by 6:00pm on the Wednesday prior 
to the date of a match, together with his/her playing record. A 
decision shall be given to the club within 48 hours.
(e)	Club badges and a logo for a manufacturer, or sponsor, may
be used on shirts and sweaters but should not exceed four
inches (10.16cm) square. The logo of a sponsor may be used
centrally provided it does not exceed eight inches (20.32cm)
in width and four inches (10.16cm) in length.


L8 MATCH PROCEDURES
(a)	All matches shall be played in accordance with these Rules
and the Laws of Cricket, except underarm bowling which is
not allowed in the League.
Clariﬁcation Note regarding Law 41.7. This Law, regarding
dangerous and high non-¬pitching deliveries, applies in its
entirety. Any full pitch delivery over waist height shall be
called a No Ball but no further penalty shall ensue unless the
umpire considers it is unfair and/or dangerous, in which case
he/she shall instruct the bowler’s captain that an official
warning is being issued. Should there be a second and similar
such occurrence by the same player he/she shall be
immediately suspended from bowling for the remainder of
the match. However, should at any time the umpire 
considers a full pitch delivery over waist height to be
deliberate and malicious the official warning, shown above,
shall be dispensed with and the suspension activated
immediately. 
(b)	All matches shall start at 1:30pm unless inclement weather
intervenes and no match shall commence after 4:15pm.
Should both teams not have been entered on the Website
Scoring System prior to the match, indicating first and
surnames of all players showing captains and wicketkeepers,
then the scorers shall be provided with the missing
information on the partially completed MRF at least 30
minutes in advance of the commencement of the match, with
the toss taking place no later than 15 minutes in advance.
(c)	Each First and Second XI shall provide its own ball, which
must be new and of standard League issue. All reserve balls
must also be of standard League issue. All balls shall be
submitted to the opposing captain and the umpires for their
approval prior to the commencement of the match. 
(d)	Both clubs shall provide a competent scorer for the duration
of the match. If no scorer is available for a team then one of
its players, who shall be a competent scorer, must be
appointed. That player shall not participate in the match
when his/her team is fielding and no interchange of scorers
shall be allowed during the innings. However, when his/her
team is batting he/she shall be allowed to participate should
a competent alternative player take over the scoring duties.
Additionally, should a competent scorer be located during 
the match and be able to take up duties the player scoring 
may resume his/her place in the team at any time. If no such
player is available then that team shall be deemed to have
failed to fulfil the fixture and be fined as per Rule L8(m).
(e)	In every match before the toss is undertaken the umpires
shall be provided with an ECB TS showing the names of all 
players. The ages of all players under the age of 19 years, 
on or before midnight on 31 August of the preceding year, 
must also be shown. Any subsequent change(s) agreed by 
both captains shall be notified to the umpires as soon as
possible. Any proposed change(s) not agreed by both 
captains shall  be decided by the umpires.
(f)	All late starts must be reported immediately to the Results
Secretary by the umpires and the home club. Any offending
club may be fined at the discretion of the Executive.
(g)	i) 	Matches in all divisions, both First & Second XIs shall be
of 45 overs per innings with a tea interval of 30 minutes
between innings. The number of overs remaining for a 
team in an innings shall be exhibited on the scoreboard
and shown in descending order.  
ii)	A player is restricted to bowling a maximum of 14 overs
but the number shall be reduced under Rule L8(l) i) in
the event of the match being affected by inclement
weather during the first innings.
iii)	Clubs shall make every effort to ensure that grounds are
fit for play by the scheduled start time. Any decision to
play, or not, is totally that of the umpires. In the case of
matches where only one League umpire is present the
decision lies solely with him/her {see Rule L11(d)}. Any
attempt to influence such a decision by club officials,
groundsmen or players will be treated as an offence
under Rule L13(a). Bad light, lightning or slippery and
wet conditions are the main reasons umpires shall judge
that play cannot commence, restart or continue. Play
shall not proceed under any circumstances if the
umpires consider any of the above to apply. Where a
decision is required outside the boundaries of the above
criteria, for a suspension or resumption of play due to
rain, the following shall apply:
Suspension of play:
i)	If a passing shower is of short duration, unless the 
strength of wind and level of light add to the
deterioration of the conditions, play shall NOT be
suspended immediately.
ii)	If, after a short time period or a number of overs,
it appears that there is no reasonable expectation
of the light rain ceasing then play shall be 
suspended.
iii)	Play, at any time, shall be suspended immediately
if the umpires consider the conditions to have
become dangerous.
Resumption of play:
i)	Play shall not resume if the umpires consider that 
conditions are dangerous.
ii)	Play shall resume, provided that both umpires
(see above) are agreed that conditions have
improved sufficiently, even though rain may still
be in the air.
Communication: 
i)         At all times the umpires shall inform both team 
captains of their intentions with regard to the
continuance, suspension or resumption of play. 
In the case of the batting team either of the 
players currently batting shall be deemed to be
the captain. 
(h)	Players of the fielding team and the two batsmen shall follow the 
umpires onto the field of play at the commencement of the match 
and at each subsequent period of play.
(i)	No player, except as a substitute fielder, shall be allowed to take 
part in a match if they arrive more than one hour after the 
scheduled start. No player shall be allowed to bowl in any match
unless they are wearing predominantly white clothing.
(j)        The batting side shall be responsible for organising a search
for any ball lost during play, subject to local ground notices
and Health & Safety regulations. 
(k)	An incoming batsman must meet the outgoing batsman on
the field of play.
(l)	(i)	Should there be any interference through inclement
weather in the first  innings, a cumulative total of 15 
minutes may be lost before any reduction in overs 
or score is enforced. Following this initial period of 15
minutes playing time, should there be any such 
interference with the innings of the team batting first, 
then two overs shall be deducted from the match, one 
for each innings, each further six minutes period of delay.
The team batting second must have a minimum of 25 
overs available to it. Should the over deduction be applied, 
as above, then the player’s maximum number of overs
to be bowled shall be reduced by one over for every full
four overs reduction, provided that no bowler has 
reached that maximum at the time of weather interference. 	
(ii)	Where inclement weather intervenes, at the discretion
of the umpires, the interval referred to in Rule L8(g) (i) 
may be taken early, during which time any deduction 
of overs will be suspended.
(iii)	Should inclement weather interfere with the innings of
the team batting second no reduction of overs shall take
place in the first 15 minutes of stoppage. Following this
period one over shall be deducted from the innings for 
every completed three minutes period of delay. The
maximum number of overs that can be deducted from
the innings shall be 20, including any of those lost at the
start of the match. After any reduction due to inclement 
weather the maximum number of overs to be bowled by 
a player in the second innings shall not exceed the
recalculated maximum number for a player in the first 
innings. No further reduction in the number of overs
to be bowled by any player shall be made during the
second innings.
(iv)	If the team batting second has its allocation of overs 
reduced due to inclement weather the score of the team 
batting first shall be recalculated. This shall be  
determined by multiplying the total number of overs 
lost to the team batting second by the average runs per
over required by the team batting second at the start
of their innings. 
(v)	The deduction of runs shall only take place when play 
Is fit to resume and should the umpires, upon recalculating 
the score of the team batting first, establish that the team 
batting second has already overtaken that score then it 
shall be deemed to have won the match.
(m)	Any club failing to fulﬁl a ﬁxture or having less than
seven players present at the scheduled start time shall forfeit
the match, unless unavoidable delays prevail, details of
which must be conveyed to the opposition team and the
umpires before the scheduled start time. The umpires shall
record all details on the Match Report Form (MRF). In
addition to the sanction under Rule L6(d) any contravention
of this Rule shall result in a ﬁne of £50.00 unless amended
or waived by the Executive. Any additional costs and the
allocation of match points shall be determined by the
Executive after consideration of all the facts. Should a club
fail to fulﬁl a League ﬁxture and/or forfeit a League match
during a season on more than two occasions the following
action shall be taken against both its Saturday  teams, or a 
single team  if  only ﬁelding such:
i)	three occasions - deducted 5 points.
ii)	four occasions - deducted an additional 10 points.
iii)	ﬁve occasions - deducted an additional 15 points.
(n)	Covers shall be used when necessary at the instruction of
the umpires. The home club is responsible for the placement
of covers which must be completed within five minutes of the
above decision of the umpires.
(o)	Performance collections may be taken for any of the following:
:i) batsman scoring 50 runs, ii) bowler taking ﬁve wickets or
iii) bowler achieving the hat-¬trick.

L9 MATCH RESULTS
(a)	Following each match, either First or Second XI, the recording
of the result is the  responsibility of  the  home club. Details
shall be entered on the Website and also be sent by email to
the ResS by no later than the days and times shown below:
i)	Website: enter by no later than 10:00pm on the day
of the match the First and Second XI results, showing
runs/wickets/over/points awarded, plus the fully 
completed Match Scoresheet.
ii)	ResS: email by no later than 10:00am on the day 
following the match the First & Second XI MRFs duly  
signed by the umpire(s) and both team 
representatives [see also Rule L7 (c)].
iii)	Website Results Confirmation: by referring to the
Spyglass Action List by no later than 10:00am on the
second day following a match all clubs, for both its First
and Second XI matches, shall confirm that the scorecard
details entered are in order and that any errors and
‘unsure’ players etc have been corrected /entered. The
GREEN button shall be clicked to confirm or the BLUE
button to automatically raise a query with the Website
Officer. 
(b)	Any club not complying with any part of this Rule shall be
ﬁned £5.00 per day for each entry that remains outstanding.
If a missing entry is not made and/or sent within seven days
of receiving a reminder then such a ﬁne shall be increased to
£10.00 per day.
(c)	During a season any club failing to comply with this Rule on
further occasions shall, in addition, be subject to the
following ﬁnes per offence: second: £10.00, third: £15.00
and fourth: £20.00. Following any ﬁfth offence the club shall
be requested to appear before the Board.

L10 DISCLOSURE & BARRING SERVICE (DBS)
(a)	The following list of persons shall obtain enhanced DBS 
Clearance from the ECB under its Safe Hands – Welfare of 
Young People in Cricket policy (currently free for un-paid 
persons or £44.00 for paid persons) before commencing 
duties in the HCL:
i)          all umpires, including club umpires
ii)	scorers over the age of 16 years
iii)	open age team captains
iv)	welfare officers
v)	paid or volunteer coaches
vi)	team managers including representative match 
personnel 
vii)	junior team co-ordinators
viii)	all other volunteers having access to children within a 
club
(b)	A foreign national, coaching young players in the League,
shall have the equivalent of a DBS check from the police
authority in his/her own country. 
(c)	DBS checks must be renewed every three years. 

L11 UMPIRES - OFFICIAL & CLUB
(a)	Umpires, whilst officiating at matches, shall wear white 
footwear, black or navy trousers, white shirt, a tie and a 
white coat, the latter two being optional in above average 
temperatures.
(b)	At the conclusion of the match the umpire(s) shall ensure 
all entries on the scoring devices and scorebooks are 
complete and, additionally, for electronic devices, that the 
match has been recorded as ‘COMPLETE’  and that all have 
been signed to that effect, as shown in Rule L9. Following
the completion of the above the consolidated expenses of
£32.00, including travel costs, shall be handed to each (the)
umpire in a  sealed envelope. Double the consolidated 
expenses shall be paid to an umpire if only one is present  
and he/she stands at both the bowler’s ends. If no play takes 
place at a match, due to inclement weather, the expenses  
shall be £10.00. Should an umpire have been informed of a 
cancellation under Rule L7(c)i) then no expenses are payable.
(c)	All clubs shall provide a club umpire contact telephone
number to enable the HCLACO Appointments Secretary
(HCLACO AS) to deal with any shortage of umpires affecting
fixtures on any match day.         
(d)	For Second XI matches the following shall apply:
i)	It shall be the responsibility of a), the home club for all
matches and b) the away club, when requested by the
HCLACO AS, to provide a competent umpire.
ii)	In both cases above it is strongly recommended that the
umpires should be members of the Association of Cricket
Officials (ACO). Alternatively, any acting umpire must be
covered by the club’s insurance policy to carry out such
duties on behalf of their club. If such an umpire is not
provided then a player, competent as an umpire, shall
be appointed from whichever relevant competing club
under the same provisions as Rule L8(d).
iii)	Should the home club fail to provide such a person it
shall be deemed to have failed to fulfil the fixture and be
dealt with according to Rule L8(m).
iv)	All club umpires assisting the HCLACO, by officiating
at a match not involving their own club, must be an ACO
Member.



L12 COMPLAINTS & PROTESTS
(a)	Other than a disciplinary matter, shown and to be dealt with
under Rule L13, any complaint or protest concerning a club,
from any other club, an Official of the League or an umpire,
shall be dealt with by either a Special Executive Meeting
(SEM) or a Complaints Panel (Panel).
(b)	Any complaint or protest must reach the Secretary by no 
later than ten days following the incident or match and, in 
the case of one from a club, shall include a deposit of £20.00 	
which shall be forfeited if the complaint or protest is deemed 	
frivolous. For any complaint or protest deemed worthy it 
shall be considered within ten days of its receipt.
(c)	The Board shall decide which category any complaint or
protest falls. Should it be of a very serious nature then a SEM
shall be convened, noting that five members shall be
randomly excluded as they may be required to act under 
Rule L12(e). In cases referred to the Panel it shall be made 
up of any five members of the Executive.
(d)	Should a complaint or protest be upheld against a club, 
either by the SEM or the Panel, it has the right of appeal 
which must be lodged with the Secretary by no later than 
ten days following receipt of the notification of the original 
decision.
(e)	Any appeal shall be dealt with by an Appeals Committee (AC)
and it shall be made up of five members of the Executive,
different to those referred to in Rule L12(c) and sit within
ten days of receipt of the appeal. The decision of the AC shall
be final and binding.
(f)	An Executive member with a vested interest in any such case
shall be ineligible to sit on any of the above bodies.

L13 DISCIPLINARY & SOCIAL/OTHER MEDIA MATTERS 
(a)	Any disciplinary action shall be conducted in accordance with
current YCB Disciplinary Procedures (refer to the updated 
YCB disciplinary document on the Website).
(b)	Any club causing information to be passed to any media 
organization or outlet regarding any matter under 
consideration by the League, without due reference to the 
PR & Media Officer, shall be subject at the discretion of the
Executive to a minimum fine of £50.00.
(c)	Club officials, players or members shall not knowingly or
recklessly do, write or say anything which is likely to bring
his/her club or the League into disrepute. Additionally,
comments posted on social networking sites shall be
considered public comment and if they are improper,
threatening, abusive, indecent, insulting or brings the game
into disrepute, then this may lead to disciplinary action.
Furthermore, any postings which may be viewed in this way
could also lead to civil proceedings being brought against the
perpetrator by those affected. A breach of this Rule, by any
club or person, is liable to a fine of a maximum £100.00 or,
in the case of a player or official, a suspension from cricket
for a minimum of two weeks to a maximum of a life ban.

L14 RULE ADDITIONS &AMENDMENTS
(a)	Alterations to these Rules shall only be made at the AGM, or
at a SGM called for this specific purpose, except in the case
of Rule L3(i) which shall be determined by any equivalent
meeting of the CCDG. 
(b)	The following timetable applies to both the Executive and 
any club proposing an alteration to these  Rules and lists the
total process. In respect of the counting and reporting of
votes for this Rule an Independent Voting Examiner (IVE)
shall be appointed by the Executive and approved by
Council:
i)	31 August: deadline for clubs to give notice in writing, 
or by email, to the Assistant Secretary (AS).
ii)	First full week in September: proposals discussed at a 
Rules Sub-Committee meeting and the final list drawn
up.
iii)	Second full week in September: all provisional
proposals sent by email by the AS to all clubs for
internal discussion.
iv)	First Tuesday in October: all proposals discussed at the
Council Meeting and any queries resolved. At this 
meeting any proposal must obtain a seconder for it to 
proceed to a vote.
v)	First Thursday in October: following iv) above, the fully 
completed proposals together with voting papers shall
be emailed to all clubs by the AS showing the actual 
deadline for submission of votes (see vi below).
vi)	Second Tuesday in November: deadline for clubs to 
return, by email, their completed voting papers to the
AS. Refer to Rule L3(g).
vii)	Second Friday in November: the AS shall forward the 
collated voting results, with all relevant material, to the
IVE. 
viii)	Third Monday in November: the IVE shall confirm the 
accuracy of the voting results to the AS.
ix)	Third Tuesday in November: the results of each proposal
shall be announced with voting numbers, by the AS at
the AGM.
The equivalent timetable above shall apply to any SGM Rule
addition or amendment held in other months.

L15 ANNUAL AWARDS & TROPHIES
(a)	All League trophies shall be presented to the champions of 
each Division together with any individual trophies the
Executive shall decide upon. Clubs requiring replica or
additional trophies should contact Briggs Priestley Ltd
(info@briggspriestley.co.uk) to order, ensuring that the
invoice is sent to the ordering club.  
(b)	The Lindley Moor Trophy & Ernest Clay Trophy shall be
awarded to the First XI & Second XI team respectively, in any
of the  Premier, First or Second Divisions, obtaining the
highest number of points from its last six matches, including
matches abandoned due to inclement weather.The champions of 
each Division shall not be eligible for these trophies.
(c)	The full descriptions of and methods for awarding the following
special trophies, team and individual, are shown in the Yearbook
under the last three pages of the indexed Honours Board: 
i)           Roy Smith Sportsmanship Trophy
ii)          The H Robinson Trophy
iii)          University of Huddersfield History & Heritage Award
iv)          Maude Trophy Sportsman of the Year
v)           Simon Lees Memorial Trophy
vi)          The Frederick Stallard Bowl
In the cases of v) & vi) should nominations be unsuccessful 
at the first attempt they shall be kept on file and reconsidered 
each year up to a maximum of a further four. Such retained 
nominations may be brought up to-date, if required, by the 
nominator. 
(d)	All trophies, including those for individuals, are in the 
custody of winning clubs who shall be held responsible for 
their safety and be required to sign a receipt to this effect.  	
All trophies shall be returned in good, clean condition to 
Briggs Priestley Ltd (info@briggspriestley.co.uk) by the dates
shown in the Trophy Appendix at the end of these Rules.
Failure to comply with this Rule by an offending club shall
result in a fine of £5.00 for the first week and £1.00 per day
thereafter.
(e)	Briggs Priestley Ltd will arrange for the engraving of all 
trophies. Should any repairs be necessary the cost shall be 
invoiced to the club (refer also to Rules K10 & T8).

THE RULES OF THE
PARISH CUP & CROSSLEY SHIELD

K1 TITLE & CONSTITUTION
(a)	The competitions shall be called the Parish Cup (Cup) and 
Crossley Shield (Shield) and be knockout competitions 
comprising of 45 overs per team. Except where 
inappropriate, League Rules shall apply plus the specific ones
provided herein.
(b)	All clubs shall enter First XI’s and, where applicable Second
XI’s, in the competitions. Clubs opting NOT to compete in the
Crossley Shield must advise the Secretary by the specified
date in January, prior to the February Council Meeting. The
Executive will notify the January deadline date to clubs by
31 December.
(c)	The Executive shall undertake the management of both 
competitions.

K2 DRAWS & TIES
(a)	Following the publication of the fixtures for any external 
inter-league competitions the PR & Media Officer shall set
the schedule for the competitions. Dates shall be published 	
for each round to include a Scheduled Date (SD) plus a
Reserve Date (RD) with all ties played on a Sunday.
(b)	The Executive shall be responsible for making the draw for 
the First Rounds at the February Council Meeting and, for all
subsequent draws, at separate meetings. Should the number
of competing teams in either competition exceed 32 then a
Preliminary Round, drawn from all competing teams, shall
take place to reduce the First Round qualifiers to 32. To
determine ties for the First Round of the Parish Cup the
numbers of each team shall be drawn in pairs from one bag,
with the tie played on the ground of the team drawn first in 	
the paring. Where a club is only entering a team in the Parish
Cup the list of club names shall show that club as ‘Club
X/Bye” to facilitate the Crossley Shield draw (see below). If
the total number of teams entered is an odd number under
32 the odd team(s) drawn last shall receive a bye. To
determine ties for the First Round of the Crossley Shield,
including those shown as ‘Club X/Bye’, the numbers of the
teams drawn at home in the First Round of the Parish Cup
shall be placed in a designated ‘away’ bag and those drawn
away from home in that competition shall be placed in a
designated ‘home’ bag. The team(s) receiving a bye in the
Parish Cup shall be placed (drawn) in one (or both) bags.
The draw shall then take place with teams drawn from the 
‘home’ and ‘away’ bags alternately until the appropriate
number of ties has been determined. The last team(s) in the
(two) bags will receive the necessary bye(s). For ties in all
subsequent rounds, except the Final, any club whose First XI
is drawn at home in the Parish Cup shall be placed in the
designated ‘away’ bag. Further teams shall be added to this
bag, drawn at random, until both bags contain an equal
number of teams with the identity of these teams being 
undisclosed. The draw for the appropriate round shall then
take place as above.
(c)	The League shall receive the whole of the receipts for the 
Final ties, from which it shall pay any incurred expenses. If
a Final tie is postponed, due to inclement weather, the
League shall indemnify the hosts for all reasonable expenses
incurred. 
(d)	Any monetary loss on a tie shall be shared equally by the 
competing clubs except as provided in Rule K2(c).

K3 PLAYER QUALIFICATION     
(a)	The qualification for players to be eligible to play in the
competitions are as follows:
i)	First Round - any player registered by his/her club with
the League prior to the commencement of the season,
plus any additional player registered by no later than 48
hours before the scheduled start date of this round.
ii)	Second Round - as above plus any further player
registered by no later than 48 hours before the
scheduled start date of this round.
(b)	No player shall play in the competitions from the Third
Round onwards unless registered as per Rule K3(a).
(c)	During the same season no player shall play for more than 
one club in the competitions. 
(d)	During the same season a player shall not be eligible to play
in a Shield tie if he/she has played for his/her First XI
the following number of matches, or more, at the 
commencement of each round:  First Round – three; Second
Round – five; Third Round – six and Semi-Final & Final –
seven.
(e)	During the same season a player who has played in a Cup tie,
except the First Round, shall not be eligible to play in a Shield
tie except as: i) a substitute fielder or ii) a player nominated
by their club to replace a player selected for any League
Representative XI on the same date as a Cup tie.
(f)	During the same season a player shall not be eligible to play
in a Cup tie if they have played in a Shield tie in the same
round, except as a substitute fielder.
(g)	Any club playing an ineligible player shall forfeit the tie.

K4 TIE PROCEDURES - GENERAL  
(a)	No tie shall be cancelled without the approval of the 
Executive except as detailed in Rule L7(c).
(b)	All ties shall start at 1.00pm.
(c)	All ties shall consist of a maximum of 45 overs per team 
The side scoring the most runs shall be the winner. 
(d)	Before the commencement of play the opposing captains 
must exchange lists of the eleven players selected. Should 
play have commenced and the tie is carried over to the RD,
only the initially named team for the SD shall play on the 
RD. If no play is possible on the SD a different team may be
selected for the RD [see Rule K6(b)].
(e)	Match ball Rule L8(c) applies including the Rule that new 
balls must be used. The League shall be responsible for 
providing balls for use in the Final ties of the competitions. 
(f)	A bowler is limited to a maximum of nine overs but this 
number may be reduced under Rules K5 or K6.
(g)	If a bowler is unable, through injury, to complete an over, 
the captain of the fielding team shall nominate another to 
finish the over, with the exception of the bowler who bowled
the last full over or one who has completed his allocation.
(h)	Should the start of a tie be delayed, as much play as possible
must be achieved on the SD. No tie shall commence after
4:30pm.
(i)	Where the scores finish level in all ties of the competitions,
including those for the Semi-Finals and Finals, the following
shall apply in obtaining a result: 
i)	the team losing the fewest wickets shall be declared the
winner.   
ii)	should both the runs scored and the wickets lost be the
same on the SD then the game shall be replayed on the
away team’s ground on the RD with Rule K5 applying as
appropriate.
(j)	Should a tie fail to start or be uncompleted on the SD refer 
to Rules K5 & K6 as appropriate.
(k)	For knockout competition finals, in addition to the two club
scorers, an official League scorer shall be appointed. His/her
main role, in addition to scoring shall be to act as back-up to
ensure that the Website is fully functioning in relation to up-
to-date online scores.
(l)	In the Final ties of both competitions should inclement 
weather or other matters affect the arrangements, members
of the Executive present at the ground shall have the
power to form an Emergency Committee (EC) to make any
re-arrangements necessary. The decision of the EC shall be
final.
(m)	No other match, including those for charity, shall be played
on a League ground on the afternoons of the Cup or Shield 
Finals. Any such matches commencing in a morning shall 
cease by no later than 1:00pm.
(n)	At the trophy presentation of the Final ties all players in 
receipt of trophies should be attired in white playing
clothing.

K5 TIE PROCEDURES - RESERVE DATE CONTINUATION
(a)	Rule K4 applies except where shown below. 
(b)	All ties shall remain as 45 overs per side unless inclement 
weather intervenes (see below)   
(c)	Where play in a tie has commenced on the SD then no 
alterations shall be made on the RD to the teams played on
that date.
(d)	Where inclement weather has interrupted the tie on the SD
and the first innings is completed but the second innings is
incomplete and inclement weather further interrupts the tie
then the following shall apply:
i) 	Where the tie commences between 1:00pm & 3:00pm
no deduction of overs shall apply. If the tie has started
between 1:00pm & 3:00pm and play is again interrupted
no overs shall be deducted before 3:00pm. For every 30
cumulative minutes lost after 3:00pm then Rule K5(d) ii)
shall apply.
ii) 	Where the tie does not start before 3:00pm then the
start time and commencement of overs deduction will
be determined by the number of overs  remaining in the
second innings when the game was abandoned on the
SD as follows:

Overs Remaining	           Latest Start Time
Between

45 & 41		                  3:00pm 
40 & 36 		                  3:30pm 
35 & 31 		                  4:00pm 
30 & 26 		                  4:30pm
25 & 21		                  5:00pm 
20 & 16 		                  5:30pm 
15 & 11 		                  6:00pm
minimum 10		                  6:30pm 

Bowling restrictions for ii) above apply as follows:-  Should a
bowler have bowled their allocated nine overs, these shall
be taken from the total number of overs, the remaining
overs then be divided equally between the remaining
bowlers. Any odd number of overs would then be added to
one or more bowlers. Any part bowled over in all of these
calculations is deemed to be completed. 
(e)	Once the latest start time is reached for each of the cases 
listed in Rule K5(d) ii) and the team batting second has not 
received a minimum of 10 overs then a Bowl Off shall take 
place to decide the winner as per Rule K7.
(f)	Where inclement weather has interrupted the tie on the SD
with the first innings incomplete and thereafter further 
inclement weather interrupts the tie on the RD then the 
match continues as per Rule K6. 
(g)	Rolling of the pitch in the presence of the umpires shall be 
allowed for seven minutes at the commencement of and at
the close of each day’s play and after the completion of any
innings.
(h)	Any necessary action required to repair the pitch and/or cut
the outfield shall be agreed between the umpires and 
captains at the end of play for each innings or day.
(i)	Except for a Semi-Final or Final tie if the RD is used due to the
SD being curtailed or postponed for inclement weather 
and the scores finish level after applying Rule K4(i) then a 
Bowl Off shall take place to determine the winner as per Rule K7.
K6 TIE PROCEDURES - RESERVE DATE START
(a)	Rule K4 applies except where shown below. In all cases 
should a tie remain uncompleted in the normal manner then
under this Rule a Bowl Off shall take place as described in
Rule K7.
(b)	If no play is possible on the SD a different team may be 
selected for the RD and before the commencement of play 
the opposing captains must exchange lists of the eleven 
players selected for this tie.
(c)	Should the start be delayed then the following over 
reductions shall apply:

Start Time	    Overs Per Side     Max Overs Per Bowler
2:00pm 	             40 	                        8
2:30pm 	             35 	                        7
3:00pm	             30 	                        6
3:30pm 	             25 	                        5
4:00pm	             20 	                        4
4:30pm	             15 	                        3
5:00pm	             10 	                        2

(d)	Where inclement weather interrupts a tie whilst in progress
then the following shall apply.
Interrupted in the first innings: 
Five overs per innings shall be deducted for every 
cumulative 30 minutes lost (note that no deduction is made
up to 29 minutes lost) However should further interruptions
occur then the cumulative minutes lost, including any up to
29 minutes, is calculated and the number of overs to be
deducted are as follows:

Minutes Lost       Overs Deducted
30 		  5
60 		 10
90 		 15
120 		 20
150 		 25
180 		 30
210 		 35

Maximum overs per bowler are as Rule K6(c). The minimum
overs for a tie shall be ten overs per team with both having
the opportunity to bat for its ten overs for a tie to be deemed
to have taken place.
Interrupted in the second innings: 
Should inclement weather interrupt the second innings then
the average runs per over of the team batting first shall be
calculated by taking the number of runs scored and dividing
by the number of overs faced. Five overs shall be deducted
for every 30 minutes lost on a cumulative basis. The target
score shall then be reduced by the number of overs lost,
multiplied by the scoring rate of the team batting first. See
Rule K6(d) for minimum overs. 
Overs allocation of a bowler if tie interrupted:
Should inclement weather interrupt an innings before a 
bowler’s allocation has been completed then the following 
calculation shall be made: the revised total number of overs
for the innings shall be divided by five to give an allocation of 
overs per bowler.  
Examples: 
i)	Should two bowlers bowl their allocated nine overs and
the innings loses 30 minutes, then five overs are
deducted. This is now a 40 overs per side game and,
with 18 overs having already been bowled, 22 overs
remain therefore the maximum number of overs per
bowler will now be 8.
ii)	Should three bowlers have bowled their nine overs and
60 minutes are lost, therefore 10 overs are lost. This is
now a 35 overs per side game and, with 27 having
already been bowled, 8 overs remain and therefore the
maximum number of overs per bowler will now be 4. 
The same calculation may also be used in the second
innings. A part bowled over is considered complete for
these calculations. 
(e)	If no play is possible on any RD, except the Finals, then a
Bowl Off shall take place to decide the winner as per Rule
K7.

K7 TIE PROCEDURES – BOWL OFF
(a)	Five bowlers from each team shall be nominated to bowl two
balls. 
(b)	A toss shall be made to ascertain which team bowls first and
players from each team shall bowl alternately. The team that
strikes the stumps the most from its 10-ball allocation shall
be declared the winner of the tie.
(c)	To achieve a strike the delivered ball shall pitch on the 
playing surface before hitting the stumps and must be a 
legitimate ball, not a no ball.
(d)	In the event of the scores still being level after the above 
then a sudden death Bowl Off shall apply. The five
nominated bowlers from the two teams shall each bowl one
ball alternately until a clear winner is achieved, the same
number of balls must be bowled per team.  
(e)	Umpires should note Rule K8(d) for their procedures.

K8 UMPIRES - OFFICIAL & CLUB
(a)	At the conclusion of a tie and following the requirements of 
the duties of umpires, as detailed in Rule L11(b), the 
competing clubs shall each pay one of the consolidated 
expenses, except in the case of Final ties.
(b)	Rule L11(b) shall also apply in cases where only one umpire
is present, except in the case of Crossley Shield First Round
ties.
(c)	Should a competition tie, for any reason, take more than one
day to complete then each umpire shall be paid  
consolidated expenses of 25% of those shown in Rule L11(b)
to the nearest £1.00 above, for every additional ground visit.
Should there be any alteration to the designated umpire(s) 
then together they shall agree the distribution of such
expenses.
(d)	Where a bowl-off is necessary to establish the winner of a
tie umpires shall act as follows. One umpire shall stand at 
the bowler’s end to judge for no balls, whilst the second
umpire shall stand square to the batting crease at the
batsman’s end to judge for the legitimacy of each ball. Each
ball shall bounce at least once, but no more than twice,
otherwise any stumps strike is invalid and no extra ball shall
be allowed. Both umpires should record the successful 
stumps strike ball(s).

K9 COMPLAINTS & DISCIPLINARY MATTERS 
(a)	Any complaint shall be made in accordance with Rule L12.
However in the case of a tie completed less than seven days
before the next round it shall be emailed to the Disciplinary
Officer within 24 hours.

K10 TROPHIES
(a)	The Parish Cup replica, the Crossley Shield and the Parish
Cup & Crossley Shield Man of the Match trophies must be
returned to Briggs Priestley Ltd [see Rule L15(c)] by the dates
shown in the Trophy Appendix at the end of these Rules.  
(b)	Failure to comply with this Rule by the offending club shall
result in a fine of £5.00 for the first week and £1.00 per day 	
thereafter.

THE RULES OF THE T20 TROPHY

T1 TITLE & CONSTITUTION
(a)	The competition shall be called the T20 Trophy and be a
knockout basis comprising  of 20 overs per innings per team.
Except where inappropriate, League and Knockout
Competition Rules shall apply plus the specific ones provided
herein. It shall be open to all member clubs together with
any other club that has applied to enter, providing their
grounds are of a standard or at least equal to those of the
League. Such clubs shall apply in writing to the Secretary by
no later than 31 December prior to the commencement of
the season and must receive permission from the Executive
to enter a team.
b)         In order to facilitate the draw made at the February Council
Meeting the Secretary shall notify clubs, by no later than 31 
December, of the January deadline date for a club to advise 
any opting out of the competition.
(c)	If a Final Day is postponed, due to inclement weather, the
League will indemnify the hosts for all reasonable expenses
incurred.
(d)	The winners of the T20 trophy shall automatically take part
in the annual WYACC indoors six-a-side competition. Should
a club not be able to compete in this event it shall advise the
Secretary no later than fourteen days following theT20 Finals
Day.

T2 DRAWS & TIES
(a)	,Should the number of clubs entering the competition
warrant its zoning then the Executive shall decide each
season whether two or four zones shall operate up to the 
Semi-Final. 
(b)	Ties shall be played on the SD of each round. However,
provided that there is no clash with any scheduled fixture, a
club may bring forward a tie to the previous Sunday, or a 
Bank Holiday, should its opponents agree, ensuring that at 
least ten days notice is given to the Secretary.
(c)	Ties shall commence in an evening at 6:30pm and for those
switched to a Sunday, or a Bank Holiday, at 1:30pm. Earlier 
starts may be made should team captains and the umpires 
agree.
(d)	Should inclement weather, and/or time, not allow the full 20
overs per innings to be played on the SD then the number
may be reduced to a minimum of ten. See Rules T5(a) & (j)
for ties interrupted on a RD.
(e)	In cases of inclement weather should a tie not start or not be
completed on a Sunday, or a Bank Holiday, it shall start or 
be continued on the original SD. Should a tie carried over to 
the SD, or one commencing on the SD, not be completed it 
shall commence or continue on the RD. In all cases a tie shall 
recommence from the position it was interrupted.

T3 PLAYER QUALIFICATION
(a)	To be eligible for the competition players must be registered
in compliance with Rule K3.
(b) 	In the case of a First or Second Round tie brought forward
under Rule T2(b), any additional player must be registered by
no later than 48 hours before the re-¬arranged start and date
of the tie.

T4 PRE-TIE PROCEDURES - GROUND MARKING & EQUIPMENT
(a)	A line shall be marked on the off side of the pitch some two
feet & six inches (79.3cm) from the centre stump. 
(b)	A Fielding Restriction Area (FRA) shall be marked on the field
of play. It shall consist of two semi-circles with their centres
as the middle stumps at either end of the pitch, the radius of
each of the semi-circles shall be 30 yards (27.43 metres) and
linked by two parallel straight lines. No part of the FRA shall
encroach within 10 yards of a boundary and, if space is
restricted, it should be marked at that point irrespective of
the radius above. 
(c)	League balls shall be used but need not necessarily be new. 
(d)	Competing clubs may use coloured clothing in all rounds of 	
the competition including the final.

T5 TIE PROCEDURES   
(a)	No bowler shall bowl more than four overs. However should
the duration of a tie be reduced, see Rule T2(d), the bowling
restriction shall be re-calculated by dividing the total number
of overs to be played by five, giving the new maximum
number of overs per bowler. Any odd number of overs shall
be shared equally amongst the remaining eligible bowlers,
but no bowler shall bowl more than one of these overs.
(b)	The maximum length of a bowler’s run up shall be ten yards
measured from the centre of the stumps at the bowler’s end.
(c)	At the delivery of a ball not more than five fielders shall be
outside the FRA referred to in Rule T4(b). For any 
transgression a no ball shall be called.
(d)	Any ball passing down the leg side of the batsman shall be
called a wide with one penalty run awarded in addition to 
the extra ball.
(e)	Should a ball pass either outside of the two feet & six inches
line on the off-side, referred to in Rule T4(a), or pass above
the batsman’s shoulder in their normal standing position,
then it shall be called a wide.
(f)	In addition to Rule L8(h) any batsman failing to take his/her
guard within two minutes of the fall of the previous 	wicket
shall be timed out.
(g)	A batsman shall immediately retire on reaching, or passing,
100 runs and no return is allowed unless he/she becomes
one of the last pair at the wicket.
(h)	In the event of the number of runs being equal at the end of
the tie then the winner shall be the team losing least wickets.
If the wickets lost are also equal then a Super Over shall be 
bowled in accordance with current ECB T20 Rules.
(i)	Runners and substitute fielders are allowed only where an
injury is sustained during the course of a tie.
(j)	By the agreement of the two captains the overs may be
reduced to a minimum of five per team should inclement
weather delay the start of a tie on the RD.
(k)	If play is not possible on either the SD or the RD a Bowl Off 
as per Rule K7 shall apply.
(l)	For the three ties on Finals Day a Power Play shall operate
for all innings whereby no more than two fielders can be
positioned outside the FRA, referred to in Rule T4(b). The
captain of the bowling side shall have a choice of when to
use the Power Play, be it for overs numbered 1-5, 6-10,
11-15 or 16-20, but, before the start of its first over of use,
this must be advised  to the umpires in order that they can
indicate to all involved.

T6 TIE RESULTS
(a)	Within 24 hours of a tie concluding the result with full score 
sheet, shall be emailed to the ResS. In addition total scores, 
plus any outstanding performances, shall be placed on the 
Website. 

T7 UMPIRES - OFFICIAL & CLUB
(a)	Each team shall provide a competent umpire who has the 
appropriate credentials {see Rule L11(d)}.
(b)	Umpires should refer to Rule K8(d) in the event of a Bowl Off
being necessary. 
(c)	For the Semi-Finals and Finals the HCLACO AS shall appoint
neutral umpires, to which suitable expenses and/or
mementoes shall be awarded by the League.

T8 TROPHY 
(a)	The T20 Trophy must be returned to Briggs Priestley Ltd [see
Rule L15(c)] by the dates shown in the Trophy Appendix at
the end of these Rules. 
(b)	Failure to comply with this Rule by the offending club shall
result in a fine of £5.00 for the first week and £1.00 per day
thereafter.
